Local solo mining.

---

ALL-IN-ONE SOLO MINING QUICKSTART:

sudo scripts/install-ckpool-solo.sh

This will download ckpool source code, v29.0 bitcoin daemon binary, check its
validity, install the daemon, build ckpool, and install it, configured for
solo mining. Follow the prompts or simply press enter for the default settings.

Should work on any .deb or .rpm based linux distribution (ubuntu, debian,
fedora, centos, rhel) to download required packages. Installs both as systemd
services as the current user but can configure a new ckpool user for both. It
will allow you to choose to run a pruned bitcoin blockchain to minimise hard
drive storage, but it is recommended to use a full blockchain and have enough
storage space to spare. The current blockchain is almost 700GB, so ideally you
should at least have double this space on the drive. You will be given the
option to use a checkpoint hash to speed up the initial blockchain download, or
disable it for maximum paranoia. It will use any existing blockchain data in
~/.bitcoin if it exists for the chosen user.

Bitcoind will be preconfigured with suitable mining defaults, and ckpool will
be configured to start in solo mining mode on port 3333 on the current machine.
You will be unable to mine to it until the bitcoin daemon has synced up the
full blockchain.

You will be given the option to enable donation to the ckpool author, and a
custom signature to be added to any solved blocks.

---

SELF INSTALL INSTRUCTIONS (build instructions not included.)

Get a password from bitcoin core for the RPC (remote procedure calls) to allow
the pool to talk to it. You will need bitcoin core source code.

Within the bitcoin source code directory type the following command:
share/rpcauth/rpcauth.py ckpool

This will give you a message such as:

String to be appended to bitcoin.conf:
rpcauth=ckpool:c6f55b4a74b8fcbca4e8b2be22d7d53b$e2ca5e642d7ef4f43ab2524964dc6b3625ccfde09a97866c5b97c40622192149
Your password:
sI7jIjC61U9ZYTT29GnBpm0Rg1qQV9w_TXOfBF1vOM8


Edit bitcoin.conf, enabling RPC (remote procedure calls) and add the rpcauth
line above. The following would allow ckpool to talk to a bitcoin daemon running
on the same hardware:

server=1
rpcauth=ckpool:c6f55b4a74b8fcbca4e8b2be22d7d53b$e2ca5e642d7ef4f43ab2524964dc6b3625ccfde09a97866c5b97c40622192149
rpcallowip=127.0.0.1
rpcbind=127.0.0.1
zmqpubhashblock=tcp://127.0.0.1:28332

Make sure to use the rpcauth line you got when running the rpcauth command.


Create or modify a ckpool configuration file (such as ckpool.conf), including
the minimum necessary entries. Make sure to use the password you got in step 1.

{
"btcd" :  [
        {
        "url" : "127.0.0.1:8332",
        "auth" : "ckpool",
        "pass" : "sI7jIjC61U9ZYTT29GnBpm0Rg1qQV9w_TXOfBF1vOM8",
        "notify" : true
        }
]
}


Start ckpool from the source code directory (pointing to the configuration file
only if it has a different name to ckpool.conf or is placed elsewhere) in solo
mode:

src/ckpool -B


Point the pools entry on your mining hardware to the local IP address where
ckpool is running on port 3333, setting a username to the bitcoin address you
wish to mine to, and put anything in the password field (such as "x")
.e.g if ckpool has a local IP address of 192.168.1.100

url: 192.168.1.100:3333
username: 1PKN98VN2z5gwSGZvGKS2bj8aADZBkyhkZ
password: x

Any valid bitcoin address will work

(Hope for) profit.

---

OPTIONAL CHANGES.


Most of the ckpool configuration options would not need to be modified for a
local solo mining operation, and some of the config options are not used in
solo mode. The ckpool.conf included with the source has all the available
configuration options and is not recommended to be used as is. The following
options may be useful for a local solo mining operation.


Mining to one fixed address. If you only plan to mine to one fixed address and
not have to worry about setting the username in every piece of mining hardware,
you can set a bitcoin address to mine to as follows:

"btcaddress" : "14BMjogz69qe8hk9thyzbmR5pg34mVKB1e",

You must then start ckpool withOUT the -B option. This would mine to the
address 14BMjogz69qe8hk9thyzbmR5pg34mVKB1e, so modify it to the bitcoin address
you wish to mine to.


You can set the starting diff (instead of the default 42) on the pool as
follows:

"startdiff" : 10000,


You can define a signature to be mined into any blocks you solved as follows:

"btcsig" : "/mined by ck/",


You may wish to enable a donation to the author of ckpool with any blocks found
as a percentage (such as 0.5%) as follows:

"donation" : 0.5,

Donation is completely optional and disabled by default, but most appreciated.
0.5% would be a reasonable value.


By default ckpool binds to every local IP address on the hardware it's run on,
but you can restrict it to certain addresses or change the port it runs on as
follows:

"serverurl" : [
	"127.0.0.1:3333",
	"192.168.1.100:3334"
],

In addition, if you specify a port above 4000, it will become a "high diff"
port that sets the minimum difficulty to 1 million.

You can specify a different configuration file as follows:

src/ckpool -B -c myconfig.conf

or you can start ckpool with a different name and it will look for the
associated configuration

src/ckpool -B -n local

this will look for a configuration file called local.conf

---

NOTES.

Json is very strict with its field processing although spacing is flexible. The
most common error to watch out for is to NOT put a comma after the last field.

You can mine with a pruned blockchain if you are short on space, though it is
not recommended as it can add more latency.

Bitcoin core is NOT optimised for mining by default without modification, and
mining solo locally should be reserved as a backup operation only unless you
have the skills, hardware, and data centre quality connectivity to minimise
latency.

Mining on testnet may create a cascade of solved competing blocks when the diff
is 1. This is normal as the default behaviour is optimised around mainnet
mining where block solving is rare.


Good luck.
